infrastructure/README.md, before:

# Infrastructure — Terraform

All Azure resources for SwatchWatch are defined in this directory using Terraform (azurerm ~4.50).

## Quick Start (Bootstrap)

**First-time setup:**

```bash
cd infrastructure
./bootstrap.sh
```

The interactive script handles everything:
- Prerequisites check (Azure CLI, Terraform)
- Configuration prompts (environment, region, GitHub repo, remote state backend)
- Secure password input (stored in Key Vault)
- Terraform backend init/reconfigure + plan/apply
- Outputs GitHub Secrets for CI/CD


**Seed data:** The dev database is seeded with realistic polish/brand/shade data via `packages/functions/migrations/003_seed_dev_data.sql`.


**Time:** ~5-10 minutes (Postgres provisioning is slow)

Bootstrap expects an existing Terraform state resource group + storage account and creates the state container automatically if needed. By default, it suggests `swatchwatch-tfstate-rg` and `<environment>.terraform.tfstate`.

See full bootstrap guide at end of this file.

## GitHub Infra Deployment (Dev + Prod)

Terraform infrastructure deploys in CI via:
- `.github/workflows/deploy-infra.yml` (reusable)
- `.github/workflows/deploy-infra-dev.yml` (caller, `dev`)
- `.github/workflows/deploy-infra-prod.yml` (caller, `prod`, manual infra-only)
- `.github/workflows/deploy-prod.yml` (on `main`, runs infra first when `infrastructure/**` changed, then app deploy)

State is stored in Azure Blob Storage using Terraform's native `azurerm` backend (configured in `main.tf` with `backend "azurerm" {}`).

Required GitHub Actions configuration (per GitHub environment):
- Secrets: `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`
- Variables: `TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP`, `TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT`, `TFSTATE_CONTAINER` (recommended: `tfstate`), `TFSTATE_BLOB_NAME` (recommended: `<environment>.terraform.tfstate`)
- Optional variables for shared/external OpenAI accounts: `OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `OPENAI_ACCOUNT_NAME`, `OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`
Recommended auth config (propagated to Terraform `TF_VAR_*` inputs):
- Secrets: `AZURE_AD_B2C_CLIENT_ID`
- Variables: `AUTH_DEV_BYPASS`, `AZURE_AD_B2C_TENANT` (falls back to `NEXT_PUBLIC_B2C_TENANT` if unset)
The workflow creates the state container automatically if it does not exist.
The workflow reads the `pg-password` secret from Key Vault and exports it as `TF_VAR_pg_admin_password` for Terraform.
When an OpenAI endpoint is configured, the workflow resolves the OpenAI account name from `OPENAI_ACCOUNT_NAME`, Terraform output, or endpoint hostname and loads that account key into `TF_VAR_openai_api_key` before Terraform runs.

## Resources Provisioned

| Resource | Terraform Resource | Purpose |
|----------|-------------------|---------|
| Resource Group | `azurerm_resource_group.main` | Container for all resources |
| Key Vault | `azurerm_key_vault.main` | Secure secrets storage (PG password, API keys) |
| PostgreSQL Flexible Server | `azurerm_postgresql_flexible_server.main` | PostgreSQL 16 with pg_trgm + pgvector |
| PostgreSQL Database | `azurerm_postgresql_flexible_server_database.main` | `swatchwatch` database |
| Storage Account | `azurerm_storage_account.main` | Blob storage for images |
| Storage Container | `azurerm_storage_container.swatches` | Swatch photos |
| Storage Container | `azurerm_storage_container.nail_photos` | Nail photos |
| Storage Container | `azurerm_storage_container.tfstate` | Terraform remote state container |
| Log Analytics Workspace | `azurerm_log_analytics_workspace.main` | Centralized log storage/query backend |
| Application Insights | `azurerm_application_insights.main` | Function telemetry, traces, requests, and exceptions |
| App Service Plan | `azurerm_service_plan.main` | Linux Consumption plan (Y1) |
| Function App | `azurerm_linux_function_app.main` | Node 20 function host (Managed Identity enabled) |
| Static Web App | `azurerm_static_web_app.main` | Next.js frontend (Standard tier) |
| Speech Services | `azurerm_cognitive_account.speech` | Speech-to-text for voice input |
| Azure OpenAI Account *(optional)* | `azurerm_cognitive_account.openai` | Vision-capable OpenAI endpoint for hex color detection (`create_openai_resources=true`) |
| Azure OpenAI Deployment *(optional)* | `azurerm_cognitive_deployment.openai_hex` | Model deployment used by `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_HEX` when OpenAI resources are provisioned |
| Azure OpenAI Diagnostic Setting *(optional)* | `azurerm_monitor_diagnostic_setting.openai` | Sends OpenAI logs/metrics to Log Analytics (when OpenAI resources are provisioned) |
| Azure Managed Redis | `azurerm_managed_redis.main` | In-memory cache for polish lists, catalog search, and reference data (Balanced_B0, 0.5 GB) |
| Custom Domain | `azurerm_static_web_app_custom_domain.dev` | Maps `dev.swatchwatch.app` in dev and `swatchwatch.app` in prod |
| Azure AD Application | `azuread_application.github_actions` | GitHub Actions OIDC identity |
| Service Principal | `azuread_service_principal.github_actions` | Grants GitHub Actions access |
| Federated Credential | `azuread_application_federated_identity_credential.github_actions` | Passwordless OIDC trust |

**Not in Terraform:** Azure AD B2C tenant — provisioned manually via the Azure portal.

## Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `subscription_id` | *(required)* | Azure subscription ID (required by azurerm provider v4+) |
| `location` | `centralus` | Azure region |
| `environment` | `dev` | Environment name (dev, staging, prod) |
| `base_name` | `swatchwatch` | Base name prefix for resources |
| `pg_admin_username` | `pgadmin` | PostgreSQL admin username |
| `pg_admin_password` | *(required)* | PostgreSQL admin password (stored in Key Vault) |
| `github_repository` | `your-github-username/swatchwatch` | GitHub repo for OIDC federation |
| `openai_custom_subdomain_name` | `null` | Optional custom subdomain for the Azure OpenAI account. If not set, a name is generated. |
| `create_openai_resources` | `false` | Provision Azure OpenAI account/deployment in this stack (disable when quota is unavailable) |
| `retain_openai_account` | `true` | Keep the legacy in-stack OpenAI account when `create_openai_resources=false` (avoids deletes blocked by nested Foundry project resources) |
| `openai_endpoint` | `""` | Existing Azure OpenAI endpoint when reusing an external account (`create_openai_resources=false`) |
| `openai_api_key` | `""` | Existing Azure OpenAI API key when reusing an external account (`create_openai_resources=false`) |
| `openai_key_vault_secret_uri` | `""` | Existing Key Vault secret URI for Azure OpenAI key (preferred over `openai_api_key` to avoid passing key through Terraform) |
| `openai_deployment_name` | `hex-detector` | Azure OpenAI deployment name exposed to Functions as `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_HEX` |
| `openai_model_name` | `gpt-4o-mini` | Azure OpenAI model name for the hex detector deployment |
| `openai_model_version` | `2024-07-18` | Azure OpenAI model version for the hex detector deployment |
| `openai_deployment_capacity` | `10` | Provisioned throughput units for the OpenAI deployment |
| `is_automation` | `false` | Flag for CI/CD pipelines (skips deployer Key Vault access policy) |
| `domain_name` | `swatchwatch.app` | Root domain name for the application (used for custom domains and CORS) |
| `azure_ad_b2c_tenant` | `to-be-added` | Azure AD B2C/Entra External ID tenant name applied to Function App setting `AZURE_AD_B2C_TENANT` |
| `azure_ad_b2c_client_id` | `to-be-added` | Azure AD B2C/Entra External ID app client ID applied to Function App setting `AZURE_AD_B2C_CLIENT_ID` |
| `auth_dev_bypass` | `false` | Controls Function App setting `AUTH_DEV_BYPASS`; keep `false` to require JWT validation |

**Sensitive variables** are stored in `terraform.tfvars` (gitignored) and created by `bootstrap.sh`.

## Security Features

✅ **Key Vault** — All secrets stored securely (PG password, API keys)  
✅ **Managed Identity** — Function App accesses Key Vault without passwords  
✅ **OIDC Federation** — GitHub Actions deploys without stored secrets  
✅ **Access Policies** — Least-privilege RBAC for all principals  
✅ **Audit Trail** — Key Vault logs all secret access  
✅ **OpenAI Observability** — Azure OpenAI diagnostic logs/metrics flow into the shared Log Analytics/App Insights workspace  
✅ **Key Vault References** — Function App settings use `@Microsoft.KeyVault(...)` syntax
✅ **Versionless Secret URIs** — Function App secret references use Key Vault `versionless_id` to avoid app-setting churn on each secret version rotation

## Naming Convention

```
${base_name}-${environment}-${resource_type}-${random_8char_suffix}
```

Example: `swatchwatch-dev-function-3fa1c9d2`

The random suffix is generated once via `random_string.suffix` and reused across resources.

## Outputs

Key outputs after `terraform apply`:

| Output | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `resource_group_name` | Name of the resource group |
| `function_app_name` | Function App name |
| `function_app_hostname` | Function App URL |
| `static_web_app_hostname` | Static Web App URL |
| `postgres_server_name` | PostgreSQL server name |
| `postgres_fqdn` | PostgreSQL connection hostname |
| `postgres_database_name` | Database name (`swatchwatch`) |
| `openai_account_name` | Azure OpenAI account name |
| `openai_endpoint` | Azure OpenAI endpoint URL |
| `openai_hex_deployment_name` | Azure OpenAI deployment name used by Functions (empty when OpenAI is disabled) |
| `openai_diagnostic_setting_name` | Azure OpenAI diagnostic setting attached to Log Analytics |
| `openai_resources_provisioned` | Whether this stack provisioned Azure OpenAI resources |
| `application_insights_name` | Application Insights resource name |
| `log_analytics_workspace_name` | Log Analytics workspace name |
| `key_vault_name` | Key Vault name |
| `github_client_id` | Azure AD app ID for GitHub Actions *(add to GitHub Secrets as `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`)* |
| `github_tenant_id` | Azure AD tenant ID *(add to GitHub Secrets as `AZURE_TENANT_ID`)* |
| `subscription_id` | Azure subscription ID *(add to GitHub Secrets as `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`)* |
| `redis_hostname` | Azure Managed Redis hostname |
| `redis_primary_access_key` | Azure Managed Redis primary access key *(sensitive)* |

The bootstrap script displays these values at the end.

## Manual Deployment (without bootstrap script)

If you prefer manual control:

```bash
cd infrastructure

# Create terraform.tfvars
cat > terraform.tfvars <<EOF
subscription_id   = "your-azure-subscription-id"
environment       = "dev"
location          = "centralus"
github_repository = "your-github-username/swatchwatch"
pg_admin_username = "pgadmin"
pg_admin_password = "your-secure-password"
create_openai_resources = false
EOF

# Initialize remote backend (example values)
TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP="swatchwatch-dev-rg"
TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT="swatchwatchdevj5jij0be"
TFSTATE_CONTAINER="tfstate"
TFSTATE_BLOB_NAME="dev.terraform.tfstate"

TFSTATE_ACCESS_KEY=$(az storage account keys list \
  --resource-group "$TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP" \
  --account-name "$TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT" \
  --query '[0].value' -o tsv)

az storage container create \
  --name "$TFSTATE_CONTAINER" \
  --account-name "$TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT" \
  --account-key "$TFSTATE_ACCESS_KEY" \
  --output none

terraform init -reconfigure \
  -backend-config="resource_group_name=$TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP" \
  -backend-config="storage_account_name=$TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT" \
  -backend-config="container_name=$TFSTATE_CONTAINER" \
  -backend-config="key=$TFSTATE_BLOB_NAME" \
  -backend-config="access_key=$TFSTATE_ACCESS_KEY"

# Plan
terraform plan -out=tfplan

# Apply
terraform apply tfplan

# View outputs
terraform output
```

## Post-Deployment Steps

### 1. Add GitHub Secrets

Go to your GitHub repo → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions

Add these 3 secrets (from `terraform output`):
- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID`
- `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`

### 2. Run Database Migrations

```bash
cd ../packages/functions

export PGHOST=$(cd ../infrastructure && terraform output -raw postgres_fqdn)
export PGPORT=5432
export PGDATABASE=swatchwatch
export PGUSER="pgadmin@$(cd ../infrastructure && terraform output -raw postgres_server_name)"
export PGPASSWORD="your-password"

npm run migrate
psql -h $PGHOST -U $PGUSER -d $PGDATABASE -f ../../docs/seed_data_sources.sql
```

### 3. Add Remaining Optional Secrets to Key Vault

```bash
VAULT_NAME=$(cd infrastructure && terraform output -raw key_vault_name)

az keyvault secret set --vault-name $VAULT_NAME \
  --name azure-speech-key --value "your-key"
```

Then update Function App settings to reference them:
```bash
FUNC_NAME=$(cd infrastructure && terraform output -raw function_app_name)
RG_NAME=$(cd infrastructure && terraform output -raw resource_group_name)

az functionapp config appsettings set \
  --name $FUNC_NAME --resource-group $RG_NAME \
  --settings \
    AZURE_SPEECH_KEY="@Microsoft.KeyVault(SecretUri=https://${VAULT_NAME}.vault.azure.net/secrets/azure-speech-key)"
```

OpenAI settings are optional:
- If `create_openai_resources=true`, Terraform provisions OpenAI and wires `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `AZURE_OPENAI_KEY`, and `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_HEX`. Diagnostics flow to Log Analytics/Application Insights.
- If `create_openai_resources=false`, either:
  - set `openai_endpoint` + `openai_api_key`, or
  - set `openai_endpoint` + `openai_key_vault_secret_uri` (preferred).

## Destroying Infrastructure

```bash
cd infrastructure
terraform destroy
```

**Warning:** This permanently deletes all data. Key Vault secrets are soft-deleted (recoverable for 7 days).

To completely purge:
```bash
az keyvault purge --name $(terraform output -raw key_vault_name)
```

Commit message:

fix: address review findings for functions tests and polish sorting (#125)
* fix: address review findings for functions tests and polish sorting

* fix(ci): make Claude workflows non-blocking on quota errors

* fix(infra): manage OpenAI resources via Terraform in CI by default

* chore: polish infra OpenAI defaults and env tfvars flow

infrastructure/README.md, after:

# Infrastructure — Terraform

All Azure resources for SwatchWatch are defined in this directory using Terraform (azurerm ~4.50).

## Quick Start (Bootstrap)

**First-time setup:**

```bash
cd infrastructure
./bootstrap.sh
```

The interactive script handles everything:
- Prerequisites check (Azure CLI, Terraform)
- Configuration prompts (environment, region, GitHub repo, remote state backend)
- Secure password input (stored in Key Vault)
- Terraform backend init/reconfigure + plan/apply
- Outputs GitHub Secrets for CI/CD

Bootstrap writes environment-specific variable and plan files:
- `terraform.<environment>.tfvars` (gitignored)
- `tfplan.<environment>` (gitignored)


**Seed data:** The dev database is seeded with realistic polish/brand/shade data via `packages/functions/migrations/003_seed_dev_data.sql`.


**Time:** ~5-10 minutes (Postgres provisioning is slow)

Bootstrap expects an existing Terraform state resource group + storage account and creates the state container automatically if needed. By default, it suggests `swatchwatch-tfstate-rg` and `<environment>.terraform.tfstate`.

See full bootstrap guide at end of this file.

## GitHub Infra Deployment (Dev + Prod)

Terraform infrastructure deploys in CI via:
- `.github/workflows/deploy-infra.yml` (reusable)
- `.github/workflows/deploy-infra-dev.yml` (caller, `dev`)
- `.github/workflows/deploy-infra-prod.yml` (caller, `prod`, manual infra-only)
- `.github/workflows/deploy-prod.yml` (on `main`, runs infra first when `infrastructure/**` changed, then app deploy)

State is stored in Azure Blob Storage using Terraform's native `azurerm` backend (configured in `main.tf` with `backend "azurerm" {}`).

Required GitHub Actions configuration (per GitHub environment):
- Secrets: `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`
- Variables: `TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP`, `TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT`, `TFSTATE_CONTAINER` (recommended: `tfstate`), `TFSTATE_BLOB_NAME` (recommended: `<environment>.terraform.tfstate`)
- OpenAI mode variable: `CREATE_OPENAI_RESOURCES` (`true` to let Terraform manage OpenAI account/deployment; default in workflow is `true`)
- Optional variables for shared/external OpenAI accounts (used when `CREATE_OPENAI_RESOURCES=false`): `OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `OPENAI_ACCOUNT_NAME`, `OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME`
Recommended auth config (propagated to Terraform `TF_VAR_*` inputs):
- Secrets: `AZURE_AD_B2C_CLIENT_ID`
- Variables: `AUTH_DEV_BYPASS`, `AZURE_AD_B2C_TENANT` (falls back to `NEXT_PUBLIC_B2C_TENANT` if unset)
The workflow creates the state container automatically if it does not exist.
The workflow reads the `pg-password` secret from Key Vault and exports it as `TF_VAR_pg_admin_password` for Terraform.
In external OpenAI mode (`CREATE_OPENAI_RESOURCES=false`), the workflow resolves the OpenAI account name from `OPENAI_ACCOUNT_NAME`, Terraform output, or endpoint hostname and loads that account key into `TF_VAR_openai_api_key` before Terraform runs.

## Resources Provisioned

| Resource | Terraform Resource | Purpose |
|----------|-------------------|---------|
| Resource Group | `azurerm_resource_group.main` | Container for all resources |
| Key Vault | `azurerm_key_vault.main` | Secure secrets storage (PG password, API keys) |
| PostgreSQL Flexible Server | `azurerm_postgresql_flexible_server.main` | PostgreSQL 16 with pg_trgm + pgvector |
| PostgreSQL Database | `azurerm_postgresql_flexible_server_database.main` | `swatchwatch` database |
| Storage Account | `azurerm_storage_account.main` | Blob storage for images |
| Storage Container | `azurerm_storage_container.swatches` | Swatch photos |
| Storage Container | `azurerm_storage_container.nail_photos` | Nail photos |
| Storage Container | `azurerm_storage_container.tfstate` | Terraform remote state container |
| Log Analytics Workspace | `azurerm_log_analytics_workspace.main` | Centralized log storage/query backend |
| Application Insights | `azurerm_application_insights.main` | Function telemetry, traces, requests, and exceptions |
| App Service Plan | `azurerm_service_plan.main` | Linux Consumption plan (Y1) |
| Function App | `azurerm_linux_function_app.main` | Node 20 function host (Managed Identity enabled) |
| Static Web App | `azurerm_static_web_app.main` | Next.js frontend (Standard tier) |
| Speech Services | `azurerm_cognitive_account.speech` | Speech-to-text for voice input |
| Azure OpenAI Account *(optional)* | `azurerm_cognitive_account.openai` | Vision-capable OpenAI endpoint for hex color detection (`create_openai_resources=true`) |
| Azure OpenAI Deployment *(optional)* | `azurerm_cognitive_deployment.openai_hex` | Model deployment used by `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_HEX` when OpenAI resources are provisioned |
| Azure OpenAI Diagnostic Setting *(optional)* | `azurerm_monitor_diagnostic_setting.openai` | Sends OpenAI logs/metrics to Log Analytics (when OpenAI resources are provisioned) |
| Azure Managed Redis | `azurerm_managed_redis.main` | In-memory cache for polish lists, catalog search, and reference data (Balanced_B0, 0.5 GB) |
| Custom Domain | `azurerm_static_web_app_custom_domain.dev` | Maps `dev.swatchwatch.app` in dev and `swatchwatch.app` in prod |
| Azure AD Application | `azuread_application.github_actions` | GitHub Actions OIDC identity |
| Service Principal | `azuread_service_principal.github_actions` | Grants GitHub Actions access |
| Federated Credential | `azuread_application_federated_identity_credential.github_actions` | Passwordless OIDC trust |

**Not in Terraform:** Azure AD B2C tenant — provisioned manually via the Azure portal.

## Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `subscription_id` | *(required)* | Azure subscription ID (required by azurerm provider v4+) |
| `location` | `centralus` | Azure region |
| `environment` | `dev` | Environment name (dev, staging, prod) |
| `base_name` | `swatchwatch` | Base name prefix for resources |
| `pg_admin_username` | `pgadmin` | PostgreSQL admin username |
| `pg_admin_password` | *(required)* | PostgreSQL admin password (stored in Key Vault) |
| `github_repository` | `your-github-username/swatchwatch` | GitHub repo for OIDC federation |
| `openai_custom_subdomain_name` | `null` | Optional custom subdomain for the Azure OpenAI account. If not set, a name is generated. |
| `create_openai_resources` | `false` | Provision Azure OpenAI account/deployment in this stack (disable when quota is unavailable) |
| `retain_openai_account` | `true` | Keep the legacy in-stack OpenAI account when `create_openai_resources=false` (avoids deletes blocked by nested Foundry project resources) |
| `openai_endpoint` | `""` | Existing Azure OpenAI endpoint when reusing an external account (`create_openai_resources=false`) |
| `openai_api_key` | `""` | Existing Azure OpenAI API key when reusing an external account (`create_openai_resources=false`) |
| `openai_key_vault_secret_uri` | `""` | Existing Key Vault secret URI for Azure OpenAI key (preferred over `openai_api_key` to avoid passing key through Terraform) |
| `openai_deployment_name` | `hex-detector` | Azure OpenAI deployment name exposed to Functions as `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_HEX` |
| `openai_model_name` | `gpt-4o-mini` | Azure OpenAI model name for the hex detector deployment |
| `openai_model_version` | `2024-07-18` | Azure OpenAI model version for the hex detector deployment |
| `openai_deployment_capacity` | `100` | Provisioned throughput units for the OpenAI deployment (`GlobalStandard` SKU) |
| `is_automation` | `false` | Flag for CI/CD pipelines (skips deployer Key Vault access policy) |
| `domain_name` | `swatchwatch.app` | Root domain name for the application (used for custom domains and CORS) |
| `azure_ad_b2c_tenant` | `to-be-added` | Azure AD B2C/Entra External ID tenant name applied to Function App setting `AZURE_AD_B2C_TENANT` |
| `azure_ad_b2c_client_id` | `to-be-added` | Azure AD B2C/Entra External ID app client ID applied to Function App setting `AZURE_AD_B2C_CLIENT_ID` |
| `auth_dev_bypass` | `false` | Controls Function App setting `AUTH_DEV_BYPASS`; keep `false` to require JWT validation |

**Sensitive variables** are stored in environment-specific tfvars files (gitignored), for example:
- `terraform.dev.tfvars`
- `terraform.prod.tfvars`

## Security Features

✅ **Key Vault** — All secrets stored securely (PG password, API keys)  
✅ **Managed Identity** — Function App accesses Key Vault without passwords  
✅ **OIDC Federation** — GitHub Actions deploys without stored secrets  
✅ **Access Policies** — Least-privilege RBAC for all principals  
✅ **Audit Trail** — Key Vault logs all secret access  
✅ **OpenAI Observability** — Azure OpenAI diagnostic logs/metrics flow into the shared Log Analytics/App Insights workspace  
✅ **Key Vault References** — Function App settings use `@Microsoft.KeyVault(...)` syntax
✅ **Versionless Secret URIs** — Function App secret references use Key Vault `versionless_id` to avoid app-setting churn on each secret version rotation

## Naming Convention

```
${base_name}-${environment}-${resource_type}-${random_8char_suffix}
```

Example: `swatchwatch-dev-function-3fa1c9d2`

The random suffix is generated once via `random_string.suffix` and reused across resources.

## Outputs

Key outputs after `terraform apply`:

| Output | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `resource_group_name` | Name of the resource group |
| `function_app_name` | Function App name |
| `function_app_hostname` | Function App URL |
| `static_web_app_hostname` | Static Web App URL |
| `postgres_server_name` | PostgreSQL server name |
| `postgres_fqdn` | PostgreSQL connection hostname |
| `postgres_database_name` | Database name (`swatchwatch`) |
| `openai_account_name` | Azure OpenAI account name |
| `openai_endpoint` | Azure OpenAI endpoint URL |
| `openai_hex_deployment_name` | Azure OpenAI deployment name used by Functions (empty when OpenAI is disabled) |
| `openai_diagnostic_setting_name` | Azure OpenAI diagnostic setting attached to Log Analytics |
| `openai_resources_provisioned` | Whether this stack provisioned Azure OpenAI resources |
| `application_insights_name` | Application Insights resource name |
| `log_analytics_workspace_name` | Log Analytics workspace name |
| `key_vault_name` | Key Vault name |
| `github_client_id` | Azure AD app ID for GitHub Actions *(add to GitHub Secrets as `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`)* |
| `github_tenant_id` | Azure AD tenant ID *(add to GitHub Secrets as `AZURE_TENANT_ID`)* |
| `subscription_id` | Azure subscription ID *(add to GitHub Secrets as `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`)* |
| `redis_hostname` | Azure Managed Redis hostname |
| `redis_primary_access_key` | Azure Managed Redis primary access key *(sensitive)* |

The bootstrap script displays these values at the end.

## Manual Deployment (without bootstrap script)

If you prefer manual control:

```bash
cd infrastructure

# Create an environment-specific tfvars file
cat > terraform.dev.tfvars <<EOF
subscription_id   = "your-azure-subscription-id"
environment       = "dev"
location          = "centralus"
github_repository = "your-github-username/swatchwatch"
pg_admin_username = "pgadmin"
pg_admin_password = "your-secure-password"
create_openai_resources = false
EOF

# Initialize remote backend (example values)
TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP="swatchwatch-dev-rg"
TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT="swatchwatchdevj5jij0be"
TFSTATE_CONTAINER="tfstate"
TFSTATE_BLOB_NAME="dev.terraform.tfstate"

TFSTATE_ACCESS_KEY=$(az storage account keys list \
  --resource-group "$TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP" \
  --account-name "$TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT" \
  --query '[0].value' -o tsv)

az storage container create \
  --name "$TFSTATE_CONTAINER" \
  --account-name "$TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT" \
  --account-key "$TFSTATE_ACCESS_KEY" \
  --output none

terraform init -reconfigure \
  -backend-config="resource_group_name=$TFSTATE_RESOURCE_GROUP" \
  -backend-config="storage_account_name=$TFSTATE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT" \
  -backend-config="container_name=$TFSTATE_CONTAINER" \
  -backend-config="key=$TFSTATE_BLOB_NAME" \
  -backend-config="access_key=$TFSTATE_ACCESS_KEY"

# Plan
terraform plan -var-file=terraform.dev.tfvars -out=tfplan.dev

# Apply
terraform apply tfplan.dev

# View outputs
terraform output
```

If you have a legacy `terraform.tfvars`, rename or remove it to avoid hidden overrides.

## Post-Deployment Steps

### 1. Add GitHub Secrets

Go to your GitHub repo → Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions

Add these 3 secrets (from `terraform output`):
- `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`
- `AZURE_TENANT_ID`
- `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`

### 2. Run Database Migrations

```bash
cd ../packages/functions

export PGHOST=$(cd ../infrastructure && terraform output -raw postgres_fqdn)
export PGPORT=5432
export PGDATABASE=swatchwatch
export PGUSER="pgadmin@$(cd ../infrastructure && terraform output -raw postgres_server_name)"
export PGPASSWORD="your-password"

npm run migrate
psql -h $PGHOST -U $PGUSER -d $PGDATABASE -f ../../docs/seed_data_sources.sql
```

### 3. Add Remaining Optional Secrets to Key Vault

```bash
VAULT_NAME=$(cd infrastructure && terraform output -raw key_vault_name)

az keyvault secret set --vault-name $VAULT_NAME \
  --name azure-speech-key --value "your-key"
```

Then update Function App settings to reference them:
```bash
FUNC_NAME=$(cd infrastructure && terraform output -raw function_app_name)
RG_NAME=$(cd infrastructure && terraform output -raw resource_group_name)

az functionapp config appsettings set \
  --name $FUNC_NAME --resource-group $RG_NAME \
  --settings \
    AZURE_SPEECH_KEY="@Microsoft.KeyVault(SecretUri=https://${VAULT_NAME}.vault.azure.net/secrets/azure-speech-key)"
```

OpenAI settings are optional:
- If `create_openai_resources=true`, Terraform provisions OpenAI and wires `AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT`, `AZURE_OPENAI_KEY`, and `AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_HEX`. Diagnostics flow to Log Analytics/Application Insights.
- If `create_openai_resources=false`, either:
  - set `openai_endpoint` + `openai_api_key`, or
  - set `openai_endpoint` + `openai_key_vault_secret_uri` (preferred).

## Destroying Infrastructure

```bash
cd infrastructure
terraform destroy -var-file=terraform.dev.tfvars
```

**Warning:** This permanently deletes all data. Key Vault secrets are soft-deleted (recoverable for 7 days).

To completely purge:
```bash
az keyvault purge --name $(terraform output -raw key_vault_name)
```
